show transcript; Rick Becker (00:00.546) Yeah, well, exactly one steals your labor, one steals your property and the two of course are related. All right, so I've hit record. I will. I am going to if you don't mind, permit me just a moment. I need to. I'm going to adjust my camera since for some reason I'm not able to adjust my chair. There we go. Okay. All right. And you're satisfied with the intro, I'll go ahead and do that we can get right to it. All right, perfect. Daniel Miller (00:38.097) Okay. Sounds great. Rick Becker (00:51.246) Okay, today we are joined by Daniel Miller, a sixth generation Texan, bestselling author of Tex it why and how Texas will leave the union and the founding president of the Texas National Movement or TNM, which he launched in 2005 and still heads today. Under his leadership, TNM has pushed successive versions of the Texas Independence Referendum Act and is now mobilizing county level chapters to force a statewide vote on secession in the 2526 legislative cycle. Daniel. Welcome. Thank you very much for coming on WDF. Daniel Miller (01:24.605) Hey, thank you for the invitation. Rick Becker (01:26.732) You bet. I'm pretty excited to have you on. whenever anyone talks about a national divorce or secession, and I know you may take issue with that particular word, but immediately Texas comes to mind, everyone says Texas is to be the first one Texas is the most organized. And I guess you are the the man pulling the levers. For our viewers, can you just give us the foundational idea of the of TNM? Daniel Miller (01:51.997) Yeah, you know, our, mission is pretty straightforward. It's, to secure and protect the political, cultural and economic independence of the nation of taxes. and that came about, you know, after, right before the formation of the TNM in 2005, what, what happened prior to the, formation of the TNM was a multi-year in-depth study on the issue of self-determination and independence. You know, there had been Up until that point, there had been a real emphasis, I think, particularly in any type of independence movement in the United States to really kind of focus back on 1776 here in Texas, you know, 1836, which was our, year that we gained our independence. And you know, that, that is, there is some definite inspiration there, but it's not anything resembling a roadmap or blueprint, uh, moving forward in. what at that point was the 21st century. And so while we did look at that, we looked at independence and self-determination movements around the world. And from that, we understood that every movement, you wanted to be, if you wanted to succeed in your goal, you had to have a very clear and stated mission for people to rally around. And that mission needed to include what the ultimate vision was for the place. that you're trying to secure independence for. And for us, it was that explicit recognition of securing and protecting what we consider the three legs of self-determination and independence. And that's the political, cultural, and economic independence. Rick Becker (03:35.97) Yeah, excellent. The there are other states that are really starting to take a closer look at this as well. And I believe I had heard an interview with you at some point that you had been working with or perhaps assisting at least four states. I think it was Louisiana, Alaska, California was at New Hampshire, I forget. But are you working with some other states? Daniel Miller (03:57.994) Yeah, absolutely. You know, what we have found in, and really third party polling has shown this as well is that there are about 24 States where sentiment on independence is high enough that they have a reasonable shot at getting over 50 % plus one if there was a referendum. And so you have some States that are far more organized more active than others. And you just, you know, you just listed off several of them, California, Alaska, which, know, the Alaskan independence party predates us by, you know, two decades practically. but, you know, you have, Florida, which is sort of in the, the process of organizing. have free Louisiana. you know, obviously I think we, may have mentioned New Hampshire. I don't know. keep running down through the list. but you know, the, numbers are there. in at least 24 States. so, we, we try to pay it forward, right. And, I say that not as the kind of cliche term that you hear it all the time. but you know, we learned so much in those early years, know, pre foundation of the TNM and in those early years, that we just essentially kept it going. You know, we keep up these relationships, this communication with the independence movements around the world. and, we learned, but in turn, just as we have learned, also work with new self-determination movements, new independence movements to teach what we have learned. You know, you, someone can tell you where the land mines are, and you can navigate. but it's, it's a different thing for people to tell you, Hey, look, you know, I've had my legs blown off because I, I, I, you know, I stepped on this land mine here. And so. The field, if you want to call it that, the movements, they're always evolving, you know, whether it's geopolitical, you know, sort of global politics or domestic politics, not everything applies, but if we can help and pay it forward to help as we were helped, then we absolutely do that. Rick Becker (06:08.194) Yeah. You know, I'd like to hit something right out of the gate that I think is huge. And and this is what I come across when I'm discussing it. The possibility of a national divorce or a secession movement, what have you. that is, well, that it's unconstitutional. And and there and there's so there's and there's two trains of thought. One is that many people believe it's it's literally in the Constitution that the secession is not permissible. The other is that for those that know that it's not in the Constitution, they are Daniel Miller (06:23.849) you Daniel Miller (06:30.537) there. Rick Becker (06:37.664) are aware that there was a Supreme Court case, Texas v. White, and that the the, you know, the those on high the Supreme Court has spoken and therefore it is unconstitutional. And I'd love to get your I mean, I've got my own thoughts. I did an annotation of the of the of the opinion and the dissenting opinion. I loved the dissenting opinion. It was it was brilliant. Yes. Yes. And sarcastic. Yes. Yes. Daniel Miller (06:49.373) Yeah. Daniel Miller (06:58.672) Oh, Greer Greer was brutal. mean, you know, I mean, he was absolutely brutal. Oh yeah. Well, cause it was, I mean, it was because it was ridiculous. mean, literally it was so politically driven. mean, you know, when you had and think about this, you know, this is a post civil war Supreme court decision. When you have a Lyman Trumbull who was, I think he was a Congressman from Michigan. You know, essentially making threats against the Supreme Court saying this is the worst kind of judicial activism and we're going to have to amend the Constitution to not not to ratify Chase's decision in Texas versus white, but to rein in the Supreme Court. You know that that was sentiment from the legislative body, you know from Congress from the North saying that the court had overstepped its bounds so. Yeah, I mean, Greer was brutal, but there were others in the North that were far more brutal than Greer was. Rick Becker (07:58.968) Yeah, you you have made a very succinct and clear explanation of where it is not in the Constitution. Can you can you just explain that to our viewers? Daniel Miller (08:08.243) Yeah. Daniel Miller (08:11.635) Sure, it's, you know, the fact that we have to point out that it's not in the constitution and people think it is really, I think, is a statement on civic literacy in the 21st century in the United States. But that being said, you know, you have to look and understand what the constitution is. And it is a document that it literally spells out the relationship between the states and the federal government. But more than that, what it does is it says, this is how the federal system is organized. These are the things that it can't do. And anything else comes from the States because rightly so. It views the union as founded by the States as independent sovereign States. And so, you know, you, you look to article one, section 10 of the U S constitution, and it's a list of things that States are forbidden from doing. says, look, if you're going to be part of this union, here are the things that you cannot do. And that is the list. And that is the only list. Guess what's not in there. Withdrawing from the union. Right. So if you look at it from the idea of reserve powers, right, which would be a 10th amendment argument. The fact is, is that because it is not specifically forbidden to the states that under the 10th amendment, it is reserved to the states and ultimately up to each state as to whether or not they stay in the union or not. And that was the prevailing opinion of the founding generation. So You know, you have this weird, you know, I guess the only way you could say it is, mean, we definitely live in a post-constitutional United States of America because you have this strange cadre of people who believe that unless the Constitution explicitly grants the states the right to do something, then it's forbidden from doing so. And they don't understand that for decades, The federal government has had to contort the interstate commerce clause to effectively, you know, wind its way into every facet of our lives simply because of the way the constitution is worded. So, you know, that's what it boils down to. So for us here in Texas, it's, it's quite a simple equation. Article one, section 10 doesn't forbid it to the state. Therefore under the 10th amendment, it is a reserve power to the state. Daniel Miller (10:30.939) And under article one, section two of the Texas constitution, which is a post civil war constitution, it says that the people have at all times the inalienable right to alter reform or abolish their government in such manner as they may think expedient. Further, if you want to look at the last part of article one, section one of the Texas constitution, it says that the perpetuity of the union depends on the right of local self-government unimpaired to all the states. there's your kill switch, right? And mean, so Rick Becker (10:58.7) Yeah. Daniel Miller (11:00.489) I mean, it doesn't get really any plainer than that. Rick Becker (11:03.98) Yes, absolutely. So I mean, you've laid out beautifully, clearly the how it's not in the Constitution. Moreover, it's actually as we read into the Constitution, understand the 10th Amendment, it's it's actually clearly relegated to the states. The only thing that that would be in the opposing teams quiver is that single Supreme Court opinion. and that's fraught with problems. It was, I mean, imagine four years after the Civil War, they're supposed to somehow say, yeah, I guess you can succeed. I mean, it was never going to happen. Not only that, but the the argumentation that that Salman Chase uses is ridiculous. And he should have recused himself. He was what was he was treasurer in an administration prior. I mean, there's so many things wrong. So we have we have a inerrant Supreme Court. decision is the only thing that actually is there. So let me go to this. Is there anything in your movement or anything you see that could be coming up that would cause the Supreme Court to look once again to test the Texas v white decision? Daniel Miller (12:14.931) You know, it's, really a matter of strategy for us. you know, there are a lot of people who say that we're, pretty ham fisted over the referendum piece of this and that we're, we're neglecting the Texas versus wide aspect of it. And the, a strategy standpoint, any movement in any state, Texas in particular, if you're going to reassert your status as a self-governing independent nation, then that's what you have to do. So, you know, what, what you're effectively doing is you're closing off, any type of, any type of mechanism that the federal government could use to stick their nose in the process. So you have to ask yourself, where would the challenge come? Okay. So let's just kind of walk through the scenario. Texans, their legislature passes a piece of legislation giving Texans a vote on this issue. Okay. The people of Texas after a free, fair, full debate and vote, vote in the affirmative in the majority saying that Texas should reassert its status as an independent nation. And the wording of the referendum is very important, but let's say that that's, that's what happens. Well, after that, Texas, the government here in Texas has to begin to act upon that mandate. Article one, section two effectively makes it so. It, you know, when people talk about the term, it legal? it a legally binding referendum? That's not the, that's not the right question to ask because referendums by their very nature, even if they are not legally binding or politically binding. And those are not my words. Those are the words of Dr. Matt Kortrup, who is the world's foremost expert on independence referendums. And so there is a, there is a political price to be paid for ignoring. a successful outcome in a popular referendum. That being said, we have to start going through the process once that's done, which is there's really four things. There's constitutional issues, statutory issues, international covenants, treaties and agreements, and then finally negotiated issues with the federal government. Constitutional issues are the issues where Texas has to amend its constitution for the purpose Daniel Miller (14:35.905) of aligning us operationally and structurally like a self-governing independent nation. So having state offices or state agencies assume the functions that had previously been delegated to the federal government and you know, foreign affairs is, is one of those, right? That has to be by virtue of membership in the union, have a common foreign policy. States are not allowed to engage in that sort of thing. Although we actually kind of do, but under the guise of of trade understandings or trade memorandums. So, you you have that part of it. So that's where the federal government would have really their first opportunity to come in and try to challenge this via lawsuit. But the question becomes, would the federal government even be able to be a party to the suit? Would they even be able to sue? They could sue perhaps for injunctive relief, but ultimately they can't do that until after the constitutional amendment process is done. And once that constitutional amendment process is done, you have what is yet again, expression of popular will or popular sovereignty. And so you begin to sort of heat these things one against the other and the federal government gets put in a pretty untenable position to challenge these successive votes on how Texas functions and operates and enacts the will from the independent referendum. So it really is strategic for us in that we're trying to close off any type of, you know, any type of avenue that they can come in to try to tie this thing up in the courts. Rick Becker (16:18.516) Mm hmm. Very interesting. The Texas does not have a citizen initiated measure or referendum process. So so you are at the mercy of the legislature, which, wow, what a what a what a mountain to climb. That's going to be. And in fact, I know that that you've that you've had attempts. You've had some sponsors or legislators introducing it, but it hasn't made it out of committee because the committee chairman or, you know, Daniel Miller (16:36.497) Yeah. Rick Becker (16:47.918) hold the keys. going forward, how do things look for this upcoming session? Is there? Are you able to to navigate the politics of it that you think you can get it further along? Daniel Miller (17:03.037) Yeah, we're, we're done. This session is done with the exception of special sessions. People, lot of people don't understand. I there are a lot of States out there that have a much clearer path, to get the referendum. Now, once we get the referendum, the path is, you know, to quote George C. Scott and Patton, it's kind of crap through a goose, right? I mean, it just kind of goes because the support is there. The pressure has been building forever. So You know, but there are other states that have a much clearer path to getting it on the ballot. And that's where we have sort of the like you said, the greatest mountain to climb. And a lot of people cite the fact that we don't have citizen initiative here. But the thing that they leave out is because the choke point is the Texas legislature, then everything we do in relation to that referendum is effectively tied to the legislative cycle. Most people don't realize Texas has a true part-time legislature. Our legislature meets for 140 days every other year. Right? So we literally just got out of a legislative session, perhaps one of the worst legislative sessions, not just for us, but for other people too. mean, it's, it's, it's literally the only thing anybody in politics can talk about is just what a dumpster fire this legislative session was. Um, but you know, the campaign season has already started. So. You know, for us, we're looking to add to our 11 Texas First Pledge signers for the next session, which would be enough if we can, if we can double that number, which looks like we have a good path to making that happen, then we've got enough of a block that we can go in and negotiate and get this referendum moving. Rick Becker (18:48.47) I would think that it's a fairly easy argument to make of the old just like let the people have a voice. you, Mr. Ms. Legislator, are opposed or in favor is irrelevant. Let the people of Texas decide. easier. Daniel Miller (19:03.997) Well, you know what their hangup is, right? The hangup that they have is that they talk out of both sides of their mouths, right? To the point that on one hand, they talk about how this is fringe, even though the poll numbers show that it's not, they say that it's, you know, it's just very vocal people on the margins. But on the other side, they do not want to have this referendum. They absolutely don't. And the reason that they don't, is because they know that if it goes to a vote, if it goes on a ballot, it will win and it won't win by little. It will win by a lot and it will prove that they have been lying this whole time about the marginal support. Look, they see the same polling data that we see. They know what happens. They also understand because you know, we've talked to the to the opposing legislators. They also know that they can't hold the line and defend staying attached to the federal system because the federal system is irreparably broken. And so, you know, imagine for a moment that you had to be on the opposite side of that. You know, we're out here selling, the best people to govern Texas or Texans. And you're on the opposite side of that. And you're having to say, no, no, no, no, no, no. Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer are the best people to govern Texas. Right. Or, you know, we're out here and we're like, look, you know, the federal, the, the federal, the federal debt clock continues to ratchet up and up and up. This is our chance to break away from it. And you have to go out there and go. You know what? $37 trillion worth of debt just ain't that bad. mean, you got to think about how hard it would be for them to make the argument when everybody's what look, the U S Congress has an approval rating typically on the day somewhere between just right above or below leprosy. Okay. So the federal government is not particularly popular and that is especially so here in Texas, regardless. of who gets the gas bill at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue. So, you know, they, it's just, they have an indefensible position, but this is what you said has been our position all along. Look, if you believe that no one wants this, then I'm your huckleberry, put it on a ballot, prove me wrong, shut me up for, you know, shut this thing down for a generation, but we're so confident, not just in our case that we can make, but in where support is for this right now. Daniel Miller (21:22.867) that we want to go on a ballot because we know it will win. Rick Becker (21:27.214) That's fascinating. You know, in North Dakota, I think it's the opposite situation. can fairly easily get something on a ballot as citizen initiated measure, but I don't think we'd have the vote for it. Which leads me to another question for you, Daniel. To me, it's a little bit of a difficult question, although it might be different from your perspective, and it deals with patriotism. My perspective is that bringing up the idea of national divorce or secession or different coalitions of states that we may better employ and preserve freedom for people in the in the same vein as our founding fathers originally thought. I feel when that's brought up in an audience that is more conservative or limited government that it is viewed as unpatriotic. In Texas, you guys have your own patriotism state and derived. But what do you say, what are your thoughts with this idea that the idea of advocating for secession or a national divorce is unpatriotic? Daniel Miller (22:33.607) Well, you know, for a lot of things like that, let me just, let me just say this first is that trust and believe in the early days of this, know, Texas has always had this sentiment of one foot out the door. mean, look, literally anytime the federal government did anything, you know, outside, you know, decided they want to color outside the lines, secede bumper stickers popped up everywhere. Right. But you know, Texas, Texas sort of considered itself the America of America, right? mean, we, we did, we did everything right, right? We sent our sons and daughters off to fight, bleed and die in the wars. And you know, we were the most patriotic of the most patriotic in the veterans in the Texas nationalist movement. We'll tell you today that that patriotism never left them. What left them was the federal government, right? The federal system left them. They view what we're doing as, as the, the attempt to preserve the values that they swore an oath to defend. They went to serve, right? And so what, what we have seen when the patriotism argument comes up is you have to begin by really defining patriotism to what, you know, is it patriotism to the political and economic, you know, institution, the United States of America, because I would contend that America and the United States of America are really two separate things. Very much how like how Thatcher in her, in the bruise speech that she gave that kind of kicked off the Brexit movement so early on, you know, how she made a very clear distinction between Europe and the European, what was then the common market, but eventually became the European Union. think she, she knew where that was headed. But you know, there is a big distinction that has to be made between the values and the institutions. And so when people lob that about not being patriotic, look, I'm Texas first, right? I mean, I am, I'm unabashedly Texas first. I understand that some people may have a differing view, right? They may be a little conflicted about, am I, you know, am I supposed to be supporting United States? Am I, well, Daniel Miller (24:53.125) Understand understand what that entails for us if we believe as the founders and the framers did Then you were always supposed to have your first loyalty and duty to your state, right? That's where it came from The federal institution was supposed to be small enough to essentially handle some common functions You know common defense, right a little bit of a postal union a free trade agreement, you know between these states I mean very small things Rick Becker (25:03.982) Mm-hmm. Daniel Miller (25:21.411) It is the federal government that you see that institution watched in DC right now, reflective of the values that you believe are American values or the values of your state. and, if not, what I typically do is I just simply ask the question. And this is, this is. Okay. This honestly came about because as you can imagine, I had been asked every question under the sun about every bit of minutia about. Texas leaving the union, right? And it came at a point of frustration right after I released the textbook. And what I did was I just flipped the script and then this is what I started saying, which is, look, imagine right now that your state was a self-governing independent nation, right? You had control over your own border and immigration policy, your own monetary and taxation policy, your own trade policy, your own defense and military policy and spending. You know, everything you had your own embassies and passports, everything that 200 other self-governing independent nations around the world have. And instead of being asked the question about whether or not you should leave, the debate was about whether or not you should give up all of that control and join the federal government, join the union, knowing everything you know about the federal government right now, would you vote to join? And if that answer, and if that answer is, you know, a no, Right? If you wouldn't vote to join, then why would you support staying a second longer than you have to? Rick Becker (26:54.722) Yeah, that's brilliant, Daniel. That is absolutely brilliant. Because I can't think of if anyone, rational person is able to step out and look at things through that lens. And you were already self sufficient state, or a nation in this case. And you looked at joining the US the federal government with how broken it absolutely broken system and the debt alone would make you say never in a million years. So what a great way to twist that for people. Daniel Miller (27:25.161) Well, thank you. Uh, you know, things born of frustration also, uh, often become quite useful. And that, that has been one, but look, it's, it really is about the perspective of this, right? Um, you know, who do you treat like, you know, I can tell you that, you know, one of my early friends in this pre TNM, uh, was a gentleman named Dr. Thomas Naylor. Uh, he was professor emeritus of economics at Duke university. left his post at Duke. moved back to his home state of Vermont and founded a movement called the second Vermont Republic, advocating for the independence of Vermont. I mean, I want you to think about that for a moment. Now it did not, you know, when people think of Vermont, now they think of two things. I think of cheese and they think of Bernie Sanders, but, but the doc had no love for Bernie Sanders. But what he did say was this, he's, know, cause he came from a pretty, pretty liberal background. Right. And so we got to be fast friends and, Rick Becker (28:00.206) Hmm. Rick Becker (28:09.471) All right. Daniel Miller (28:22.633) You know, what we came to realize was that we bonded together over this idea of self-determination, because at the end of the day, how about we let Vermont determine what's best for Vermont and let Texas determine what's best for Texas. This is why we can get along and work with and have conversations with the people in California and Alaska and New Hampshire and these other states where we might not be politically aligned on a single solitary policy issue. But what we can agree is, you know, let these guys govern themselves. And because we know that if we stay in this union, the polarization is going to continue. The pendulum is going to swing back and forth. The pressure will build up. And look, we had a perfect example of that in not too far gone history about what happens. And that's called Balkanization and no one wants that. Or you slide into the decline of the federal system. And then there is the, the, the, just the dissolution like the Soviet union and everyone winds up broken destitute. You're feeding your military dog food. Nobody wants that either. So let's be the adults in the room. Let's have an adult conversation and say, we don't need the federal government anymore to come in here and push one size fits none policies on everyone. Let the States govern themselves as self-governing independent nations and have relationships with one another to the extent that they are comfortable doing so. Rick Becker (29:43.555) Yes. Rick Becker (29:50.774) Yes, absolutely 100%. And you know, you really hit on the the crux of this podcast. And it's the the idea, acknowledging that in large part, the reason we are so polarized is because as you said, a none size fits all or one size fits all. And, and, and, and when we're worried about who's gaining control of a large nation with all these, they're the federal fingers in the state's business. then we are concerned and we are going to fight with California if they're trying to control things and they're going to fight with Texas and Wyoming and you know so forth and if we were able to be independent states or have a national divorce or at the very least if we had a true federal system of sovereign states we wouldn't care and that's I think the point you've just made very well you can get along with California no matter even though they are 180 degrees from you You can get along because hey, listen, Jefferson said it right, if it neither picks my pocket nor breaks my leg, what care do I have? And and I think that's that's the beauty in that I'd like to go to some specifics of what it looks like for Texas breaking away. But I think what I want to do is go back to the referendum and tie these two things together. You said it would pass overwhelmingly. What about Social Security? I'm thinking that you might have a hard time convincing anybody who's over 60 to vote for secession, vote for leaving the union if they think that all that money they've paid in for their Social Security for their retirement is now gone, vanished. Daniel Miller (31:32.893) Well, I mean, here's the good news. mean, or the bad news, however you want to say it. The answer to that really is not in our hands. the answer to that is the social security administration said social security trust funds is going to be bankrupt by 2034. So, you know, I would suggest that seniors and those, you know, that are looking at social security as the entirety of their retirement have a much bigger problem on the horizon. The tax is becoming an independent nation. That being said, when I get the social security question, which is indeed the most asked question that I get, literally everywhere I get asked this question, all I have to do is look to what the actual law is in the federal system, which is your federal pension benefits, not exclusive to just the social security program, are payable regardless of where you live. with the exception of you cannot move to a country that is under banking sanctions for being state sponsors of terror. So you don't get to go to new, you can't move to North Korea. You can't move to Syria. You can't move to Cuba. You can't move to Belarus. And I think Russia may be under sanctions now because of the thing with Ukraine, but, there's just a very small and it's because that they're under these banking sanctions. it's residents independent. Right. And think about how many expats we know that moved to Mexico or central America or another country where that dollar will go further. Because I mean, after paying into that system for years and years and years, basically what they're doing to our seniors is giving them crumbs from the master's table and saying, be glad you're getting that. you know, this Ponzi scheme of social security, but that being said, if, if seniors are concerned about that, then really independence is about the only thing that they have got. The only hope that they will be able to preserve any of that value whatsoever. Um, last time I looked at the figures, social security or federal pension benefit payments into Texas were a little north of $74 billion annually. And what we know is that on any given year, Texans overpay anywhere from 103 to $160 billion into the federal system. So Daniel Miller (33:52.346) If we, you know, we become independent and we're no longer overpaying 103 to $160 billion, we still have the ability. If push came to shove to cover much like a Vegas casino, cover every chip that's on the table for our senior citizens. Rick Becker (34:08.908) Yeah, interesting. Do you would you foresee that the that the citizens of Texas would have dual citizenship in large part with the US? Daniel Miller (34:17.617) Well, the, know, it's incredibly, and this is kind of a fun, a funny thing that a lot of people don't understand. is exceedingly hard, for a person to have their citizenship revoked by the United States, right? You can go become a citizen of another nation state and never say anything and you effectively operate as a dual citizen. Now, federal law, federal rule says, right. And so what we have seen. Typically, and the most recent example of this would be Brexit is that whole discussion comes about in the negotiated issues phase of this, where you have to determine how citizens that are, you know, that are kind of stuck in limbo. So for example, during Brexit, have UK citizens that lived abroad. Well, what is, what are their rights? How are they going to be treated? Vice versa with people that held a EU passport. in the UK, very similar situation here. And social security or federal pension benefits will likely be part of that discussion. You know, we're, we're kind of in a good position where that's concerned. Ultimately, because probably by 2034, it's not going to be much of an argument anyway, because seniors are going to have to take what is it anywhere from 40 to 70 % cuts in the value and what they pay and what get paid and their benefits. So that the federal government is going to quickly bring that to a head for us and kind of shut that argument down. Rick Becker (35:52.268) Yeah. Well, I've got I think I'm going to round out maybe your top three most common questions that we already hit social security. So I'm going to lob the next two at you and you can tell me if they are in your top three. What about the debt? And what about say, military assets slash nukes? Daniel Miller (36:12.199) Yeah, that's a fun one, you know, because we have Pantex up in the pan handle, for the nukes, but let me just, excuse me, let me just take the, the, the first of those, if, if you're looking at, well, I'll you what, let's, let's take the military one first, and then we'll take the debt. Cause I think that that'll be, that'll be a little bit more to unpack, when it comes to military assets. So I will tell you where international obligation lies in this sort of is going to be part of the debt answer as well. But technically speaking, when a, an entity that is part of a larger entity becomes independent, whatever assets are there belong to them. Right? So it deals with the, you know, what is owned by the succeeding state. I did not, not sess seating, but suck seating. you get into the whole thing about treaty succession, but Rick Becker (37:08.002) Mm-hmm. Daniel Miller (37:12.017) Ideally, what we're going to do, you have to look at what the disposition of those say like the military assets and particularly the land. Okay. So the military assets belong to the federal government. So let's just start with that. Things that are owned by the federal government continue to be owned by that entity. What you have where the military bases are concerned is property, right? And that property is either leased. It's considered a federal reservation or has been purchased outright. Now the federal government owns very little property here in Texas. You know, you take Ford hood, for example, that's a federal military reservation. you take others like office buildings. Those are either leased. you know, there's a lot of those that are leased. have some that are owned that are historic. And so what you have there is all of that still owned by the federal government, but we're under no obligation to treat it as such, but probably will because that's the pragmatic approach. That being said, that serves as a, um, you know, all of that, depending on the status of the property, those things either stay with the federal government or come right back to Texas. And that would be the case of federal military reservations. Okay. But the, uh, the issue with the debt, and this is why I want to take debt last the issue with the military and the military equipment, the federal property, any of those things. becomes effectively a bargaining chip because under international precedent, international law, Texas is under no obligation to repay a single cent of the federal debt because the federal debt is held just like that property is held by the entity. So is that debt. Okay. So there is no obligation to do so. Now there have been discussions about how that could be handled. It will definitely be negotiated. Texas will likely pay. Rick Becker (38:54.829) Mm-hmm. Daniel Miller (39:06.555) some of it, but we also are not, they're not able to slap an exit tax on us, so to speak. We're not under any obligation to pay any sort of onerous debt. Okay. So that being said, it becomes this whole bargaining chip. And one of the best ways that I heard it was it's like, okay, look, if, you want to force us to take a percentage of the federal debt, let's have that calculation. Let's talk about, you know, our GDP into the economy. Let's talk about the years of overpayment into the federal system. But whatever that number works out to be, that's great. But that also means that we want the percentage of the assets that were purchased with that debt. So if you want to say, okay, well, look, Texas, you're going to take 5 % of the federal debt. That's cool. We would like 5 % of your military equipment, please. You know, I mean, so these things invariably are negotiated out, you're going to have people sitting across the table, hashing through these numbers going through, we've gone through and we know what the various scenarios are. And they're all, for those parts of it, extremely complex. But the good news is we've got about 40 years of, you know, this flourishing of self-determination and self-governing independent nations that have shown the way that have kind of guided a lot of where that can and probably will go. Rick Becker (40:37.922) Gotcha. Well, it sounds like it's well thought out. I bet that will be fascinating. And I hope that we have an opportunity to see how how it all plays out. A couple of conflict scenarios. Because some people have when I've talked about secession or this or that and their thought immediately goes to the federal government will sort of like the Civil War coming in and saying absolutely not. So you're in a position where if the federal government wanted they could cause a blockade, for example, are have you thought through how you would handle those types of situations? Or do you feel that it's so unlikely as to not need to worry about it? Daniel Miller (41:18.759) Well, I think it's unlikely. I mean, look, the, the federal government, it's crazy. may seem ultimately proved to be fairly pragmatic about certain things. and, and this is one of them, right? Because they, they have to measure, they've gained this, this scenario out honestly, with every state as much as we have, right? I mean, we, we heard from someone in the federal government that they were war gaming this thing at the Pentagon. right that if a state left and ultimately what we know is this Texas as the eighth largest economy in the world we have massive refineries along our Gulf Coast you know we we have we produce more energy more technology more agriculture than so many other states I mean we're leaders in everything you have you have one of the largest import export hubs is not Los Angeles it's literally Laredo Texas as goods and services move in through, you know, into Mexico or into Central America and make their way up. So there is, there is this sort of 800 pound gorilla in the room that is the Texas economy and, how it drives as an economic engine, the rest of the U S economy. So you understand if you take the scenario, like you said, well, they could blockade us. Well, that's great. then you know what's going to happen when the first winter rolls around and there's no heating oil. You know how much of their how much of their fuel both raw and unrefined can they import from the Middle East and from other places. You know what does that do to the supply chains. You know what does it do when no goods or services are moving up through Laredo and our southern ports anymore. You know there is this this idea that anything the federal government does not just a blockade but let's just take military action as well. anything that becomes economically disruptive for Texas is, you know, it hurts, doesn't feel good, but ultimately the ripple effects on the U S economy, will be catastrophic. You know, we've already got a situation with the monetary supply. We've got downgraded credit ratings. mean, everything is moving toward the U S economy. Daniel Miller (43:42.853) sort of tatering on the brink of, you know, sit sitting at this precipice, just getting ready to fall off. So you have a, what would be tantamount to a major economic disruption by taking Texas economically off the board in the United States as an entity does not survive that. Right. And so you wind up with Texas being independent as a byproduct of the dissolution of the United States anyway, along with pretty much every other state because the federal government can't hold. So, you you take that as an economic scenario, but the same thing plays out with the military scenario as well. You know, the same polls that showed the levels of support in the various states show that no one in any of the states has the stomach for military intervention on a state whose citizens vote to peacefully withdraw from the union. You had a Zogby poll. Zogby was polling this thing all the way back to 2009. where they polled active duty military service personnel and asked, do states have a constitutional right to withdraw from the union? 45%. So they had an absolute constitutional right. Well, that's a catastrophic result for the federal government because it, you know, if troops soldiers have to, you know, if they're morally compelled to disobey an unconstitutional or unlawful order, Rick Becker (44:52.014) Yes. Daniel Miller (45:03.037) then in order to bomb the Walmart and Houston, because we voted to withdraw from the union is an unconstitutional order. No offense to the Walmart in Houston. Okay. But just as an example, but that becomes an unconstitutional order. What happens when you have 45 % of your military that says, we're not going to carry this out. This is ridiculous. These people's only crime is going to the polls and voting to say, we want to be independent. It's why we focus so much on the process of moving Texas operationally and functionally toward being more like a self-governing independent nation, culminating in a referendum with an up or down vote, very public, big debate, big free and fair election, because you don't want to give them an excuse to say, all right, that's it, let's go bomb Austin. Rick Becker (45:56.91) What state do you think is most likely to follow you out the door? as a part of that, you know, if Texas leaves, it would, I think, be most effective if you saw other states leaving so that it would, you know, sway the federal government from being able to just focus on Texas and somehow trying to regain control. So what state do you see leaves first? And are you coordinating timelines with anyone? Daniel Miller (46:24.391) You know, every state is pursuing their own path. I mean, as we're talking and communicating and doing things together, there's not been a direct level of that sort of coordination because each state has sort of its own situation. You know, I think back and I've said this before, but when we were studying independence movements historically and around the world, those that were contemporaneous, mean, Every one of these has their own set of individual challenges, their own timelines, and it all revolves around the political, cultural, and historical aspects of it. Their electoral system, recent history, I mean, there's all sorts of things. Well, we see that here, state to state. You know, when people refer to America as a nation, I let them know that you haven't studied it enough, because if America was a nation, that's a monolithic nation. You don't have these sort of differences. in a unitary nation state that we see even state to state here in the U S. And so, you know, you may have like one of the, one of the differences we mentioned a moment ago, which is the lack of citizen initiative. Well, other States have citizen initiative and they are working on that. You know, California is running a massive petition campaign right now. So we can, we can coordinate, we can communicate, we can talk on some of the bigger issues. But a lot of that on the ground work and particularly those timelines really depend on what kind of process they need to follow. Um, plus what tools they have at their disposal to execute that move. Okay. Um, that said, that was a lot of setup to answer your question. know. Uh, but that being said, um, the, the one thing to, to bear in mind is, is we really don't know who's going to be the first out the door because as much as we can, you know, build public support and push so much related to the self determination movements is also driven by external circumstances. You know, the, the pressure from outside forcing those inside of the nascent nation state to move to action. You never know when there's going to be one of those catalyzing moments. And so, you know, that being said, Alberta is a good example, obviously not a state of the United States. Daniel Miller (48:50.473) much to the chagrin, I think of Donald Trump, but that, but that being said, you know, Alberta, um, Alberta had multiple independence organizations. Uh, they were kind of listing about, mean, Alberta prosperity project was kind of there, but they were really pushing sovereignty, but they were having difficulty all of a sudden, even, I mean, you gotta think even during the, uh, the pandemic, even during, you know, the, the trucker convoy, I mean, you, go through all these things. Rick Becker (48:53.411) Yeah. Daniel Miller (49:19.261) There was never really any massive traction. Like there was not this massive upswell of people going, let's get Alberta out of here. There was talk about it, but no organized action. And then with one thing, you know, the, you know, the replacement of Trudeau with Carney, the, you know, Trump talking about cannabis being the 51st state all of sudden now, I mean, the town hall, the independence town halls in Alberta are full from city to city, the city. Rick Becker (49:24.014) Mm-hmm. Daniel Miller (49:46.983) The, you know, the premier Danielle Smith, she, got the threshold for the petition reduced down by massive amount, got the timeline for it extended. So they have a very clear path to making that happen. Well, any number of external circumstances could happen to where it could accelerate the process. I would like to think we will be the first out the door. And I know that if we're first out the door, we won't, definitely won't be the last. and frankly, I want to be first out the door because I don't want to, I don't want to have to pay off on a bet to the Californians. Rick Becker (50:19.374) I like that. I like it. Do you I see some scenarios where maybe there's some inciting event that's just a huge shock maybe globally maybe to the United States, where there's a dissolution of the United States perhaps there's then these coalitions of states. I see like Pacifica, the northeast, the southeast, maybe the heartland. Do you see any circumstance in which Texas would be part of a of a coalition of states or a a nation? of a few states. And then I guess the second part of that would be how about Louisiana you indicated that you've been working with them. They were part of the military district immediately post civil war with Texas being ruled by the Union military. Daniel Miller (51:04.177) I know. Federal federal courts are still located there. I mean, you look at the you look at the federal court districts and they they have a tendency to line up a bit with the reconstruction districts. That being said, so look, I'll tell you, this really gets down to understand, you know, the definition of the words, right? And, you know, nation state country, those things, and I will tell you that there is a a a shortcut mentally that people like to use. And I'm not saying it's a bad thing. It's just, do. They say, well, you know, we're going to get out of this union. Let's just have a, another one. Right. But, and in their minds, when you ask them to clarify, okay, we'll describe what that union would look like. Will it be more like the one the founding fathers did? It says, Oh, okay. So self-governing independent States that agree to trade with one another, travel between one another, defend one another. You know, perhaps a currency union, maybe, maybe not, you know, that, that sort of thing, right? Not this absolute, we're going to send everybody to a Capitol and we're going to rule everybody, right? And they're let's say, okay, well, let me, let me, let me just kind of catch up to the 21st century. That happens around the world all the time right now without forming absolute political and economic unions by things called treaties. You know, you can literally, I mean, you know, one of the things that shocked me in the research that I was doing for the textbook. Rick Becker (52:12.003) Mm-hmm. Daniel Miller (52:31.869) was I wanted to just see how the federal government dealt with free trade with other self-governing independent nations. Right. And, and what I found was, was that the federal government had at that time executed free trade agreements with 22 other self-governing independent nations that in effect, because of the structure of the agreements made the barriers the same or less for those countries than it is state to state. So from a trade perspective, Jordan is a state. South Korea is a state, right? If you were using that as your only measuring stick, because that's how the relationship is. And so I use that as an example, you know, or the military look, the United States is part of a, of a mutual defense pact. It's called NATO. We we've all known about it for a long time. Mutual defense packs exist around the world. You know, the, you have mutual military assistance agreements, you know, the OAS for the organization, the American States, there is a Rick Becker (53:06.21) Mm-hmm. Daniel Miller (53:30.289) an agreement in place for mutual assistance. So I think it's important for us before we start going, Hey, if, my state bounces out, first thing I want is I want, you know, we're not picking dodgeball teams, right? I mean, that's, that's not what we're doing, but what it does is, is, is I think everybody should take the opportunity for what it is, which is to have your self-governing independent nation be able to negotiate, on terms. that work for you with all the other states, right? So, you know, Texas, Texas withdrawals and let's say, you know, 10, 11, 12, 15, 24, let's say the whole 24 come out, right? The ones that we cited are pretty good. Let's say all 24 come out. Well, all of a sudden now we can go to those states. One, I want to go, Hey, look, let's discuss what trade is going to look like between us. Are we going to tear off the crap out of each other? We're going to free trade, right? Well, what happens if we get attacked, right? Well, Let's define what that military relationship will look like. You know, if you go out and you start lobbing rockets into somebody's backyard halfway across the world, does that obligate us to participate? Probably not. you know, whether it's trade, travel, all of these things, you know, we would have the ability to negotiate those out individually. And if there's alignment on those, or you have trade blocks, or you have mutual defense packs comprised of multiple states, You can do that, but you can do all the things that the framers tried to do with the United States Constitution without surrendering your sovereignty to a government that does not know you, does not care about you, and only wants to centralize power in its capital. And that may be one of the biggest benefits to independence. Rick Becker (55:20.174) That sounds great. Daniel, I could, I'd like to throw a few questions at you. Very short answers. I call them rapid fire questions. Are you up for it? Daniel Miller (55:28.891) I always love it when somebody tells me, we're doing lightning round and they have to be short answers. That means I've been long winded and I, acknowledge that. Rick Becker (55:35.722) No, no, no, no, at all. You know, a podcast and we're looking for soundbites. So I always do the rapid fire at the at the end. So 20 years from now, what a success look like full sovereignty, just a looser confederation for or a renegotiated US Constitution. And I should clarify when I say success, I don't mean for the TNM movement, but for the United States. Daniel Miller (55:43.304) Yep. Daniel Miller (56:02.429) What does success look like for the United States to 20 years from now? Success would be to maintain whatever states decide to continue to be a part of the United States. Because in 20 years time, I firmly believe you're going to see fewer stars on the flag. Rick Becker (56:22.626) Yeah, I think you're right. I think you're right on that. Okay, Billboard slogan for Texit. Daniel Miller (56:29.372) The billboard slogan for tax it. it's it's tax it now. I mean, that's tax it now. I mean, that's look, that's that's our battle cry. Rick Becker (56:31.426) Yes. Text it now. OK. I like it. First foreign leader you'd invite to Austin for recognition talks. Daniel Miller (56:43.535) probably Donald J. Trump. Rick Becker (56:46.242) I love it. See, I that's such that's a great answer. And I should have thought of that if it's not was not on my was not on my list. Are there any surprises in the demographics that are joining your movement in recent months or years? Daniel Miller (57:03.437) I will tell you for us, we've been a bit of an aberration for a long time, politically speaking in that the demographics of the T and and Texas supporters at large is more representative of Texas as a whole than either major political party. Rick Becker (57:22.56) All right. The federal program Texas Texans will miss least on day one. Daniel Miller (57:30.061) program or agency. the one they'll miss the least will be the internal revenue service. mean, come on. I mean, that's, that's everyone's probably the federal reserve, but Hey, we may be shed of the federal reserve before independence anyway, on the path that we're on. So Rick Becker (57:32.482) Either one. Rick Becker (57:48.468) it. Texas has an array of really colorful, fun, historical figures, which of those would you revive to help you draft a new Texas Constitution? Daniel Miller (58:01.129) Mirabu Lamar. Rick Becker (58:04.566) I'll have to read about them. Daniel Miller (58:06.247) He was the second president of the Republic. fought in the revolution and he was, he was the president of the Republic that was the most opposed to annexation, but more than that, even though his presidency was otherwise somewhat disastrous, he had a very clear vision of Texas being an independent nation. He's, he was one of the ones who promulgated the use of the word Texan for Texans in the Republic. he, he envisioned a Texas that could be economic and prosperous. He was there in basically the post revolution shambles economically. you know, I mean, just across the board in Lamar for all of his faults, the one thing that he had beyond a shadow of doubt was he had a vision for a free independent self-governing nation of taxes. Rick Becker (58:56.302) Very good. Austin Houston or somewhere else? Where should the diplomatic corps be headquartered? Daniel Miller (59:05.865) so the diplomatic core, would probably be Houston. Houston is probably the most, metropolitan city. think there's a ton of consulates there already. and look, I'm just going to be honest with you. Austin's already too doggone crowded. mean, we can't, we can't, we can't squeeze any, anybody else on I-35. It just can't be. Rick Becker (59:29.378) Sounds good. Last one. Which holiday would you rename or scrap entirely once you gain independence? Daniel Miller (59:37.485) Wow. that is, that is a great question. you know, I don't, I don't know about any that I would rename, or scrap. mean, I think each have, I mean, look, we're obviously talking about major calendar holidays. We're not talking about national cheese day, right? but look, what I, what I would like to see is obviously March 2nd. Rick Becker (59:56.492) Yeah, no, no, Yes. Daniel Miller (01:00:05.181) being Texas Independence Day. mean, it still is right, but I mean, it should be far more prominent than it is. And perhaps if I were going to rename one, you know, I would rename July the 4th as Colonial Independence Day, you know, so it was a little more specific. Rick Becker (01:00:19.598) Yeah. Sure. I like it. Excellent. Well, I've thoroughly enjoyed the interview. Daniel Miller, can you tell our audience exactly where they can find you and perhaps where they can find your book? Daniel Miller (01:00:31.913) Sure, absolutely. I would encourage anyone who wanted more information to head to our website at TNM.me. That's TNM as in Texas Nationalist Movement dot me. And from there you can jump off to wherever you need to go. You can learn more. We have the largest FAQ on the Texas issue link there. We have, you know, memberships, our store, you can make contributions, news. We have our own internal social media network. mean, You know, we have everything that you would expect from an organization that has 630,000 supporters in Texas. And so I would encourage everyone to go check it out. Rick Becker (01:01:09.442) Fantastic. It was great talking with you, Daniel. All right. Okay, I'm going to hit stop and Daniel. Daniel Miller (01:01:11.849) Hey, thank you so much for having me. 